# A parallel meta-heuristic method for solving large scale unit commitment considering the integration of new energy sectors
**Xiaodong Zhu , Shihao Zhao , Zhile Yang , *, Ning Zhang , Xinzhi Xu**
**Keywords:Unit commitment; Large scale; Meta-heuristic; Electric vehicle; Renewable energy**
---
## 一、总结、评价和应用
1. 问题的讨论需要在建立一定的前提下。例如本文中，不考虑能量损失，以及机组单位时间内发电量的变化。
2. 数学公式需要详细。文中**Formula1**中包含的$F_j(P_{j.t})$会用**Formula2**详细展示。先展示整体，再抽丝剥茧，具体介绍。
3. 文中使用的是**v-shaped transfer function**将位置转换为表示开关状态的0，1。暂时不了解转换是否合理，或者说采用其他函数能否提高性能。
## 二、文章的主要问题
1. The novel algorithm combines the real value and binary decision variables obtained by social learning particle swarm optimization algorithm, aiming to solve large scale mixed integer unit commitment problem considering charging and discharging management of PEV with large RGs integration.
## 三、结论
## 四、思想脉络
### 1. Introduction
- Due to the need to schedule the unit output and the charging and discharging arrangement of PEV at the same time, based on SLPSO, this paper proposes a binary **SLPSO (BSLPSO)** algorithm to *schedule the on/off state of the unit*, and selects the traditional **SLPSO** to *schedule the charging and discharging of PEV.*
### 2. Proposed problem
#### 2.1 Objective function
1. **the sum of economic costs of all units within 24 h**
#### 2.2 Constraints of the proposed problem
- The common constraints of UC problem include **power balance, generation limit, minimum up/down-time limit and some others**.
	1. **power balance**：the power balance constraint, that is, in any period of time, the power generated by the units and RGs should meet the power required by the load and the demand of PEV.
	2. **generation limit**：It considers the production capacity of each unit and limits the output of each unit within a certain range.
	3. **the minimum up/down-time limit**：This constraint specifies under what conditions each unit should be in the startup state or shutdown state respectively.
	4. **spinning reserve limit**：In practice, in order to *cope with the unexpected extra load*, it is necessary to reserve the spinning power, which is of great significance to realize the power balance.
	5. **the capacity limit of PEV charging and discharging**
	6. **the PEVs power demand limitation**：Normally, in daily use, the sum of PEVs charging power should be equal to the power necessary for normal use of PEV.
### 3. Binary/real-valued social learning particle swarm optimization
#### 3.1 Social learning particle swarm optimization
- **SLPSO** ranks the population according to *fitness values* in each generation, and allows individuals to *update their position by selecting only individuals who are better than themselves* as learning objects.
	1. the algorithm makes *each dimension* of the individual learn from individuals who are better than themselves, which greatly *accelerates the convergence speed* of the algorithm. 
	2. the algorithm also adds the *inertial behavior* of individuals in reference to PSO, so as to *increase the ability of the algorithm to jump out of the local optimal solution*.
	3. *a learning probability parameter* related to the problem dimension is proposed, which *enhances the algorithm optimization ability in the face of high-dimensional problems.*
#### 3.2 Binary SLPSO
- the unit has only two states on and off, 1 and 0 can be used to represent the two states respectively.
- In this paper, a **v-shaped transfer function** is used to convert the individual parameters after each position update to 0 and 1 respectively
### 4. The detailed steps of the proposed algorithm
- *the binary part* of the algorithm is mainly used to *update the switch state of the unit*,while *the real value part* is used to *optimize the charging and discharging management of PEV and obtain the output value of each unit.*
- The detailed process of optimization is as follows:
	1. **Data access**: In order to *verify the impact* of PEV and RGs access on UC problems, corresponding controlled tests are set up。
	2. **Initialization**: The *population* is initialized, and *the parameters of the model*.Individuals that *do not meet* the constraints are *treated* according to the method in paper.
	3. **Calculated fitness**: The *fitness* of each individual is *calculated according to the objective function*, and the *output power* of each unit is *solved by the lambda iteration method*.
	4. **Evolutionary update**: The population was *sequenced according to fitness*, and particle *positions were updated* according to the above updating mechanism.
	5. **Judging iteration conditions**
### 5. Numerical results and analysis
#### 5.1 Case 1: the performance of BSLPSO when solving UC problems

#### 5.2 Case 2: the impact on the UC problem after RGs is connected
#### 5.3 Case 3: influence of charging and discharging of PEV on UC problem
#### 5.4 Case 4: RGs and PEV charging and discharging's influence on UC problems
### 6. Conclusion

