## 2023/1/12
domain
spectra
plural
- **a‧rith‧me‧tic** 1 / əˈrɪθmətɪk / noun [ uncountable ]

	the science of numbers involving adding, multiplying etc → mathematics
coefficient
sinusoid
band
- **spec‧trum** / ˈspektrəm / noun ( plural spectra / -trə / ) [ countable ]

	1 a complete range of opinions, people, situations etc, going from one extreme to its opposite
	
	spectrum of
	
	the ethnic spectrum of America
	
	across the spectrum
	
	The bill drew support from across the political spectrum.
	
	broad/wide/full etc spectrum
	
	a broad spectrum of environmental groups
	
	The two articles here represent opposite ends of the spectrum .
	
	2 the set of bands of coloured light into which a beam of light separates when it is passed through a prism
	
	3 a complete range of radio, sound etc waves :
	
	the electromagnetic spectrum
in terms of
cosine
2 pi over capital T=$\frac{2 \pi}{T}$
fall within
dashed
transition
in essence
attenuation
- os‧cil‧lo‧scope / əˈsɪləskəʊp $ -skoʊp / noun [ countable ] technical
	
	a piece of equipment that shows changes in electrical voltage as a line on a screen
vicinity
beating effect
- **sym‧me‧try** / ˈsɪmətri, ˈsɪmɪtri / noun [ uncountable ]

	1 the quality of being symmetrical OPP asymmetry
	
	symmetry of
	
	the symmetry of the design
	
	2 the quality that a situation has when two events or actions seem to be balanced or equal in some way OPP asymmetry :
	
	There was a certain symmetry to coming back to New York, where I started my artistic life all those years ago.
- **sym‧met‧ri‧ca**l / sɪˈmetrɪk ə l / ( also sym‧met‧ric / sɪˈmetrɪk / ) adjective

	an object or design that is symmetrical has two halves that are exactly the same shape and size OPP asymmetrical :
	
	The pattern was perfectly symmetrical.
	
	— symmetrically / -kli / adverb
ripple
infinite
cutoff
invariant
- **am‧pli‧tude** / ˈæmplətjuːd, ˈæmplɪtjuːd $ -tuːd / noun [ uncountable ]

	technical the distance between the middle and the top or bottom of a wave such as a sound wave
exponential
rescale
upshot
staircase
boxcar
attenuate
ragtime
transcript
recursive

## 2023/1/13
synthesis
seismic
catalyst
audio
fairly recently
horn
megaphone
distortion
capitalize
dramatic
aria
fairly
orchestral
accompaniment
redub
treat
dimensional
afford
grain
grain noise
procedure
elaborately
carry out
simultaneously
contrast
photographically
bolier
illumination
bring out
radome
dimly
radar
sonar
keep in mind
concentrate
rusty
feel a little rusty
pale
dot

## 2023/1/14
peruse
casually
casually peruse
in addition to
manual
manual to obtain
scope
the scope of 
as mentioned in the preface
assume
decompose
arbitrary
shorthand
shift-invariant
restrict to
virtue
convolution
commutative
interchange
cascade
in cascade
convolve
convolve with
wrestle
wrestle with
derive
stress
let me stress
dummy
dummy variable
summation
flip around in
descendent
taught
burgeoning
revision

## 2023/1/15
cutscene
chill
albeit
albeit with
pedagogy
tradition
applicability

## 2023/1/16
curricula
quantization
appendix
sophisticated
interface
encapsulate
hands-on
semester
multirate
synergy
fidelity
facsimile
polyphase
wavelet
commonplace
disc
asymmetric
portfolio
phonemic
aided
incorporate
decimation
make use of
interpolation
nevertheless
aerial
spectral
facets
parametric
term
synthesize
in all cases
spatial
continuum
notation
arise from

## 2023/2/7
troubleshoot 

## 2023/2/8
workload 劳动力

## 2023/2/10
penalty 惩罚

## 2023/2/14
prequel 前篇

## 2023/2/17
sub-field 子域
ant colony 蚁群
toy 玩具

## 2023/2/20
attribute 属性
heuristic 启发式的
tournament 竞标赛
vectorization 向量化
multithreading 多线程
multiprocessing 多处理
animation 动画
hyphen 连字号
subtract 减去
impart 传授

## 2023/2/21
slide 幻灯片

## 2023/2/25
inactive 不活跃的
latency 延时
throughput 吞吐量
evenly 均匀地
introduce 引进
fetch 取来
stall 暂停
incur 招致、引发
throw 抛
throw away 丢弃
parallelism 平行
usability 可用性
squash 挤压
coerce 强迫
rigidity 刚性
operand 操作数
overwrite 覆盖
entry 条目
implicit 隐性的

## 2023/2/26
exception 异常
saturate 浸湿
tune 调整
tune to 调整至
hazard 危险
speculation 推测
interleave 交错
round-robin 循环
block 阻止
coarse 粗糙的
separator 分隔符
propagation 传播
- **or‧a‧tory** / ˈɒrətri $ ˈɔːrətɔːri, ˈɑː- / noun ( plural oratories )

	1 [ uncountable ] the skill of making powerful speeches
	
	2 [ countable ] a small building or part of a church where people can go to pray
	
	— oratorical / ˌɒrəˈtɒrɪk ə l◂ $ ˌɔːrəˈtɔːr-, ˌɑːrəˈtɑː- / adjective
- ˈ**nit-ˌpicking** noun [ uncountable ] informal

	when someone argues about small unimportant details or tries to find small mistakes in something :
	
	Soames was getting impatient with his daughter’s constant nitpicking.
	
	— nitpicking adjective
	
	— nitpicker noun [ countable ]
- **pre‧ma‧ture** / ˈpremətʃə, -tʃʊə, ˌpreməˈtʃʊə $ ˌpriːməˈtʃʊr◂ / adjective

	1 happening before the natural or proper time :
	
	his premature death due to cancer
	
	premature ageing of the skin
	
	2 a premature baby is born before the usual time of birth :
	
	a premature birth
	
	The baby was six weeks premature.
	
	3 done too early or too soon :
	
	a premature order to attack
	
	Any talk of a deal is premature.
	
	it is premature (for somebody) to do something
	
	It would be premature to accuse anyone until the investigation is complete.
	
	— prematurely adverb :
	
	The baby was born prematurely.

## 2023/2/28
- sweep‧stake / ˈswiːpsteɪk / British English , sweepstakes American English noun [ countable ]

	1 a type of bet ting in which the winner receives all the money risked by everyone else
	
	2 American English a type of competition in which you have the chance to win a prize if your name is chosen
	
	3 American English a competition, election etc in which no one knows who will be the winner :

	the presidential sweepstakes

## 2023/3/2
- **de‧ter‧min‧is‧m** / dɪˈtɜːmənɪz ə m, dɪˈtɜːmɪnɪz ə m $ -ɜːr- / noun [ uncountable ]

	the belief that what you do and what happens to you are caused by things that you cannot control

	— deterministic / dɪˌtɜːməˈnɪstɪk◂, dɪˌtɜːmɪˈnɪstɪk◂ $ -ɜːr- / adjective
- **con‧dense** / kənˈdens / verb

	1 [ intransitive and transitive ] if a gas condenses, or is condensed, it becomes a liquid :
	
	the mist which condensed on every cold surface
	
	condense into
	
	The gaseous metal is cooled and condenses into liquid zinc.
	
	2 [ transitive ] to make something that is spoken or written shorter, by not giving as much detail or using fewer words to give the same information
	
	condense something into something
	
	This whole chapter could be condensed into a few paragraphs.
	
	3 [ transitive ] to make a liquid thicker by removing some of the water :
	
	condensed soup
- **in‧tu‧i‧tive** / ɪnˈtjuːətɪv, ɪnˈtjuːɪtɪv $ -ˈtuː-, -ˈtjuː- / adjective

	1 an intuitive idea is based on a feeling rather than on knowledge or facts SYN instinctive :
	
	He seemed to have an intuitive awareness of how I felt.
	
	2 someone who is intuitive is able to understand situations without being told or having any proof about them
	
	— intuitively adverb
- **de‧vi‧a‧tion** AC / ˌdiːviˈeɪʃ ə n / noun

	1 [ uncountable and countable ] a noticeable difference from what is expected or acceptable
	
	deviation from
	
	deviation from the normal procedure
	
	2 [ countable ] technical the difference between a number or measurement in a set and the average of all the numbers or measurements in that set
	
	→ standard deviation
- **in‧ter‧val** W3 AC / ˈɪntəv ə l $ -tər- / noun [ countable ]

	1 the period of time between two events, activities etc :
	
	He left the room, returning after a short interval with a message.
	
	interval between
	
	The interval between arrest and trial can be up to six months.
	
	2 sunny/bright intervals short periods of fine weather between cloudy, rainy weather etc
	
	3 at weekly/20-minute etc intervals every week, 20 minutes etc :
	
	The trains run at half-hourly intervals.
	
	4 at regular intervals
	
	a) something that happens at regular intervals happens often :
	
	The phone rang at regular intervals all afternoon.
	
	b) objects that are placed at regular intervals have all been placed at the same distance from each other :
	
	Trees had been planted at regular intervals.
	
	5 British English a short period of time between the parts of a play, concert etc SYN intermission American English :
	
	We can get some drinks in the interval.
	
	6 technical the amount of difference in pitch between two musical notes
	
	THESAURUS
	
	stage the raised area on which the actors, musicians etc perform : He came on stage to rapturous applause. | The band will appear live on stage for the first time in three years.
	
	the stalls British English , the orchestra American English the lower level of seats : He had a seat in the stalls. | We paid $100 for a seat in the orchestra.
	
	the circle British English , the balcony the higher level of seats : They were sitting in the balcony.
	
	the orchestra pit the space below the stage where the musicians sit : The actress fell into the orchestra pit.
	
	box office the place in a theatre where you buy tickets : Collect your tickets at the box office.
	
	programme British English , program American English a small book that you buy when you go to the theatre that gives information about the play and the performers : His name is not in the programme. | Do you want me to buy you a program?
	
	interval British English , intermission BrE formal and American English a short period of time between the parts of a play or show when the audience can talk or have a drink : We got a drink in the interval.
- **scrol**l 2 verb [ intransitive always + adverb/preposition ]

	to move information on a computer screen up or down so that you can read it
	
	scroll through
	
	He scrolled through the document.
	
	scroll up/down
	
	Could you scroll down a few lines?
- **con‧ver‧sion** AC / kənˈvɜːʃ ə n $ -ˈvɜːrʒ ə n / noun [ uncountable and countable ]

	1 when you change something from one form, purpose, or system to a different one
	
	conversion into
	
	The warehouse was undergoing conversion into apartments.
	
	conversion of
	
	the conversion of waste into usable products
	
	conversion to
	
	The British conversion to the metric system took place in the 1970s.
	
	house/barn/loft etc conversion British English (= when you change the use of a house, barn etc, so that it becomes apartments, a house, a room etc )
	
	2 when someone changes from one religion or belief to a different one
	
	conversion to
	
	a conversion to vegetarianism
	
	conversion from
	
	Newman’s conversion from Anglicanism to Catholicism
	
	3 a way of scoring extra points in rugby or American football

- **res‧o‧lu‧tion** W3 AC / ˌrezəˈluːʃ ə n / noun

	1 decision [ countable ] a formal decision or statement agreed on by a group of people, especially after a vote
	
	pass/adopt/approve a resolution
	
	The resolution was passed by a two-thirds majority.
	
	a resolution calling for a ban on dumping nuclear waste
	
	They have failed to comply with the resolution.
	
	2 solution [ singular, uncountable ] when someone solves a problem, argument, or difficult situation
	
	resolution of
	
	a forum for the resolution of commercial disputes
	
	3 promise [ countable ] a promise to yourself to do something → resolve
	
	resolution to do something
	
	Carol made a resolution to work harder at school.
	
	New Year’s resolution (= a resolution made on January 1st )
	
	4 determination [ uncountable ] strong belief and determination :
	
	Then, with sudden resolution, she stood up.
	
	5 clear picture [ uncountable and countable ] the power of a television, camera, microscope etc to give a clear picture
	
	high/low resolution (= how clear or unclear the picture is )
	
	COLLOCATIONS
	
	verbs
	
	pass/approve a resolution The Security Council passed a resolution condemning the country’s aggression.
	
	adopt a resolution (= pass it ) The resolution was adopted by 12 votes to none.
	
	reject a resolution The National Assembly rejected the resolution.
	
	propose/introduce/put forward a resolution The resolution was proposed by the chairman of the committee.
	
	table a resolution (= officially propose it ) Siddall tabled a resolution asking for the Board’s approval of the Five Year Business Plan.
	
	vote on a resolution Are there any comments you wish to make before we vote on this resolution?
	
	a resolution calling for something We support the EU resolution calling for a ban on the use of these fishing nets.
	
	a resolution condemning something The UN Security Council tabled a resolution condemning the invasion.
- **decimal** 2 adjective

	a decimal system is based on the number 10 :
	
	changing to a decimal system
	
	calculations accurate to three decimal places (= one of the numbers after the full stop in a decimal )
- **mag‧ni‧tude** / ˈmæɡnətjuːd, ˈmæɡnɪtjuːd $ -tuːd / noun

	1 [ uncountable ] the great size or importance of something
	
	magnitude of
	
	They didn’t seem to appreciate the magnitude of the problem.
	
	of such/this/similar etc magnitude
	
	We did not think the cuts would be of this magnitude.
	
	an increase of this order of magnitude (= size )
	
	2 [ countable ] technical the degree of brightness of a star
	
	3 [ countable ] technical the force of an earthquake
- **ne‧gate** AC / nɪˈɡeɪt / verb [ transitive ] formal

	1 to prevent something from having any effect :
	
	Efforts to expand the tourist industry could be negated by reports that the sea is highly polluted.
	
	2 to state that something does not exist or is untrue SYN deny
- **pa‧ren‧the‧sis** / pəˈrenθəsəs, pəˈrenθɪsəs / noun ( plural parentheses / -siːz / ) [ countable usually plural ]

	1 a round bracket
	
	in parentheses
	
	The figures in parentheses refer to page numbers.
	
	2 in parenthesis British English , in parentheses American English if you say something in parenthesis, you say it while you are talking about something else in order to add information or explain something :
	
	In parenthesis, I should add that the results have not yet been proven.
	
	→ punctuation mark
- **man‧da‧to‧ry** / ˈmændət ə ri $ -tɔːri / adjective

	if something is mandatory, the law says it must be done SYN compulsory , obligatory → discretionary
	
	mandatory for
	
	Crash helmets are mandatory for motorcyclists.
	
	Murder carries a mandatory life sentence .
	
	The Council has made it mandatory for all nurses to attend a refresher course every three years.
- **fi‧del‧i‧ty** / fɪˈdeləti, fɪˈdelɪti / noun [ uncountable ] formal

	1 when you are loyal to your husband, girlfriend etc, by not having sex with anyone else SYN loyalty OPP infidelity :
	
	the importance of marital fidelity (= in marriage )
	
	2 when you are loyal to a person, an organization, or something that you believe in SYN loyalty
	
	fidelity to
	
	his fidelity to the company over 25 years
	
	3 formal how much a film, a piece of written work etc remains unchanged from an earlier piece of work, or the facts that are known SYN faithfulness
	
	fidelity to
	
	the movie’s fidelity to the original book
	
	→ high fidelity
- **re‧sist‧ance** S3 W3 / rɪˈzɪst ə ns / noun

	1 against change [ singular, uncountable ] a refusal to accept new ideas or changes
	
	resistance to
	
	people’s resistance to change
	
	resistance from
	
	The no-smoking policy was introduced with little resistance from staff.
	
	2 fighting [ singular, uncountable ] fighting against someone who is attacking you
	
	put up/offer resistance
	
	Rebel gunmen have put up strong resistance.
	
	3 against infection/illness [ singular, uncountable ] the natural ability of a person, animal, or plant to stop diseases or difficult conditions from harming them
	
	resistance to
	
	the body’s resistance to infection
	
	disease resistance
	
	4 wind/air/water resistance the way in which wind, air, or water can cause a moving object such as a car, plane, or boat to slow down
	
	5 electricity [ uncountable ] the ability of a substance to stop the flow of an electric current through it
	
	6 the resistance ( also the Resistance ) an organization that secretly fights against an enemy that controls their country
	
	7 the line/path of least resistance if you follow the path of least resistance, you avoid making difficult decisions and choose the easiest solution to a problem – often used to show disapproval :
	
	Many people don’t make changes because they’re following the path of least resistance .
	
	Kirk always just takes the line of least resistance .
	
	→ passive resistance
	
	COLLOCATIONS
	
	adjectives
	
	strong resistance He prepared for strong resistance to the changes.
	
	stiff resistance (= strong resistance ) The city government is facing some stiff resistance.
	
	considerable resistance (= fairly strong resistance ) The proposals met with considerable resistance from our American colleagues.
	
	fierce resistance Endeavours to change their religion had provoked fierce resistance.
	
	stubborn resistance The stubborn resistance of the people remains an inspiring example.
	
	heroic resistance The threat of invasion drew the Greek cities together in heroic resistance to the Persians.
	
	token resistance (= not great or sincere ) He put up only a token resistance.
	
	passive resistance (= a way of protesting against something or opposing a government without using violence ) Suffragettes resorted to passive resistance as the only weapon at their disposal.
	
	verbs
	
	put up resistance (= resist someone or something ) If the rest of us are agreed, I don’t think he’ll put up much resistance.
	
	offer resistance The demonstrators offered no resistance.
	
	meet (with) resistance ( also encounter resistance formal ) (= be resisted ) Attempts to modify the curriculum have met with strong resistance in many colleges. | The troops advanced swiftly, encountering only minor resistance.
	
	overcome resistance (= fight and win against it ) How can he overcome resistance to the idea in Congress?
	
	crush resistance (= end it by force ) He added that any resistance would be crushed.
	
	resistance + NOUN
	
	the resistance movement (= all the people who work together to resist military forces controlling their country ) Members of the resistance movement were arrested and shot.
	
	a resistance group The resistance groups are well armed.
	
	a resistance fighter Resistance fighters had captured a German officer.
- **sine** / saɪn / noun [ countable ] technical ( written abbreviation sin )

	the fraction ( 2 ) calculated for an angle by dividing the length of the side opposite it in a triangle that has a right angle , by the length of the side opposite the right angle
	
	→ cosine , tangent
- **jar‧gon** / ˈdʒɑːɡən $ ˈdʒɑːrɡən, -ɡɑːn / noun [ uncountable ]

	words and expressions used in a particular profession or by a particular group of people, which are difficult for other people to understand – often used to show disapproval → argot :
	
	Keep it simple and avoid the use of jargon.
	
	technical/scientific/legal/medical etc jargon
	
	documents full of legal jargon
- **oc‧ca‧sion‧al** S3 W3 / əˈkeɪʒ ə nəl / adjective [ only before noun ]

	happening sometimes but not often or regularly :
	
	He made occasional visits to London.
	
	They had an occasional coffee together after shopping.
	
	He only has occasional use of a car.
	
	We should have enough money left for the occasional trip.
- **har‧mon‧ic** / hɑːˈmonɪk $ hɑːrˈmɑː- / adjective technical

	relating to the way notes are played or sung together to give a pleasing sound :
	
	harmonic scales

# 2023/3/3
- **pad‧ding** / ˈpædɪŋ / noun [ uncountable ]

	1 soft material used to fill or cover something :
	
	a helmet with protective padding
	
	2 unnecessary and uninteresting details or words that are added to make a sentence, speech etc longer – used to show disapproval
- **con‧tam‧i‧nate** / kənˈtæməneɪt, kənˈtæmɪneɪt / verb [ transitive ]

	1 to make a place or substance dirty or harmful by putting something such as chemicals or poison in it :
	
	Drinking water supplies are believed to have been contaminated.
	
	2 to influence something in a way that has a bad effect :
	
	He claims the poster ads have ‘contaminated Berlin’s streets’.
	
	— contamination / kənˌtæməˈneɪʃ ə n, kənˌtæmɪˈneɪʃ ə n / noun [ uncountable ] :
	
	radioactive contamination
- **in‧te‧gra**l AC / ˈɪntəɡrəl, ˈɪntɪɡrəl / adjective

	1 forming a necessary part of something :
	
	Vegetables are an integral part of our diet.
	
	integral to
	
	Statistics are integral to medical research.
	
	2 [ usually before noun ] provided as part of something, rather than being separate :
	
	a TV and integral video recorder
	
	— integrally adverb

# 2023/3/4
- **sub‧set** / ˈsʌbset / noun [ countable ]

	a group of people or things that is part of a larger group of people or things
	
	subset of
	
	a small subset of the city’s immigrant population

# 2023/3/5
- **du‧al** / ˈdjuː ə l $ ˈduːəl / adjective [ only before noun ]

	having two of something or two parts → single
	
	dual role/purpose/function
	
	The bridge has a dual role, carrying both road and rail.
	
	a dual system of education
	
	dual citizenship/nationality
	
	She has dual nationality , of Canada and Britain (= she is a citizen of Canada and Britain ) .
	
	— duality / djuˈæləti, djuˈælɪti $ du- / noun [ uncountable ]
- **co‧rol‧la‧ry** / kəˈrɒləri $ ˈkɔːrəleri, ˈkɑː- / noun ( plural corollaries ) [ countable ] formal

	something that is the direct result of something else
	
	corollary of/to
	
	Is social inequality the inevitable corollary of economic freedom?
- **gon‧do‧la** / ˈɡɒndələ $ ˈɡɑːn-, ɡɑːnˈdoʊlə / noun [ countable ]

	1 a long narrow boat with a flat bottom and high points at each end, used on the canal s in Venice in Italy
	
	2 the place where passengers sit that hangs beneath an airship or balloon 1 ( 2 )
	
	3 the enclosed part of a cable car where the passengers sit

# 2023/3/7
- con‧sec‧u‧tive / kənˈsekjətɪv, kənˈsekjʊtɪv / adjective

	consecutive numbers or periods of time follow one after the other without any interruptions OPP non-consecutive :
	
	It had rained for four consecutive days.
	
	Can they win the title for the third consecutive season?
	
	— consecutively adverb :
	
	Number the pages consecutively.
- 



